feat(dashboard): show deprecated dependency warnings (#29694)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/key-concepts/dashboard.md

This section explains some common use cases where having the Dependency Dashboard can help.

### Warnings for deprecated dependencies

> If deprecated packages are found - or any packages have community-sourced replacement PRs available - then Renovate will add a prominent warning about these packages near the top of the Dependency Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Renovate finds: 

- deprecated packages
- or any packages that have a  community-sourced replacement PRs available

Then Renovate adds a prominent warning about these packages near the top of the Dependency Dashboard.
```

Here is an example of how this can look:

> [!WARNING]
> The following dependencies are deprecated:

| Datasource | Name                | Replacement?                                                                      |
| ---------- | ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | npm        | `airbnb-prop-types` | ![Available](https://img.shields.io/badge/available-green?style=flat-square)      |

Reviewer 2: it'd be cool if the "available" badge was a link to the npm package page of the replacement.

Author: My first preference was to link to the _open PR_ if one existed, as that would be even more valuable. But I didn't want perfect to be the enemy of good here, and we can enhance this later - I've created an issue for this: https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/29696

> | npm        | `left-pad`          | ![Unavailable](https://img.shields.io/badge/unavailable-orange?style=flat-square) |

Reviewer: The GitHub alert syntax won't display as you mean to in the published docs. I recommend putting the warning and table in an Material for MkDocs admonition block, with a prettier ignore line before the block.

I never tried a table in an admonition block, so the above may not work.

Or you can use the `>` characters to make a "quote" of the warning and table, and use a ⚠️ emoji.

https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/#usage

Author: Would a screenshot be better?

Reviewer: A screenshot will work well. Will need a descriptive alt text though. 🙂

Author: Actually I decided instead to remove the warning part and keep the rest

Reviewer: That's a good way to go too. The warning styling is not critical to have in the docs. When users see the warning on the Dashboard they'll understand it right away. 😄 

Can you resolve this conversation for me then? 😉

This section explains some common use cases where having the Dependency Dashboard can help.

### Warnings for deprecated dependencies

If Renovate finds:

- packages flagged as deprecated on their registry, or
- packages that have a community-sourced replacement PR available

Then Renovate adds a prominent warning about these packages near the top of the Dependency Dashboard.
Here is an example of how this can look:

> > The following dependencies are deprecated:
> 
> | Datasource | Name                | Replacement?                                                                      |
> | ---------- | ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | npm        | `airbnb-prop-types` | ![Available](https://img.shields.io/badge/available-green?style=flat-square)      |
> | npm        | `left-pad`          | ![Unavailable](https://img.shields.io/badge/unavailable-orange?style=flat-square) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The following dependencies are deprecated:
> 
> | Datasource | Name                | Replacement?                                                                      > |
> | ---------- | ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | npm        | `airbnb-prop-types` | ![Available](https://img.shields.io/badge/available-green?style=flat-square)      |
> | npm        | `left-pad`          | ![Unavailable](https://img.shields.io/badge/unavailable-orange?style=flat-square) |
```

The quote styling needs to be used on the whole block.

Author: I would prefer not to have the table quoted, as it's not quoted in the actual dashboard

This section explains some common use cases where having the Dependency Dashboard can help.

### Warnings for deprecated dependencies

> If Renovate finds: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Renovate finds:
```

- packages flagged as deprecated on their registry, or
- packages that have a community-sourced replacement PR available

Then Renovate adds a prominent warning about these packages near the top of the Dependency Dashboard.
Here is an example of how this can look:

> > [!WARNING]

Author: ```suggestion
```
